So now let's finish off this playing,
and we can get this thing deployed.
So let's take note of
the current issues that we have.
So let's go through this app,
and we can see what that is and
then we'll fix those issues.
So, if I hit play, I'm gonna turn this
down, and then I seek to the end,
or actually, let's just hit next and
see what happens.
First of all, that doesn't do anything so
we got it we're not there yet,
next is literally not doing anything.
And previous is literally
not doing anything, so
although we do have handlers for that
those handlers are just setting an index.
We're not doing anything with that index,
so we need to do something with that.
If we go to the end of the track and
just let it in naturally by itself,
it should go back to the next it should go
to the next songs I don't have repeat set,
but as you can see, it didn't it
just stayed on the current song.
So we got to fix that,
the other thing we need to fix is,
is if I have repeat on well, you're not
gonna be able to observe this book because
it is actually going to repeat
because it's not going next.
But I promise you that doesn't work either
and the same thing with shuffle if I hit
shuffle, and then I hit next which doesn't
work that's not gonna work either.
So we got to fix all of those things.
So let's do it let's head back to
the code the first thing is we
need to Iddress one issue is that when you
click on one of these songs to load it up.
Right now we are setting
the whereas as we're setting
the index that's being played to zero.
So to always be the first thing we need to
set it to whatever the index of the active
song that that got passed in.
We need to set it to that, so
Instead of putting zero on this use state,
we're instead going to say the initial
state is gonna be songs dot
find index of whatever some song ID
that triple equals some active song.
ID, so, whatever that index is start
there so that's the first change.
Making sure we set the initial index to be
whatever the index of the active song is
and the current playlist so
it doesn't reset to zero no
matter what song we click on.
And then the next thing is we need
to actually use this index to
play the current song.
So in order to do that,
we know that the player is bound
to whatever the act of song is.
This so how do we actually take advantage
of using the index well if we use
the index to set the active song that
would trigger a state change through easy
peasy.
Which will then rerender the component
with the correct active song so
that's all we need to do is to use
R actions from easy peasy to set
an active song based off the index.
And now we got to think about,
well, when does the song change.
The song changes on end,
it changes on previous, changes on next.
So we have to put in all
three of those places or
we can just make a use effect that
watches when the index changes.
And when the index changes, then we can
set it active song, so let's do that.
So let's make a new use effects I
don't need this one, this is fine and
we'll say use effec, and
what this one's gonna do is it's going to
watch the current index it's also
going to need reference to an action.
Called, like the action that we have from
our stored actions which we need to pull
in so I'm actually just gonna
pull that in right quick.
Gotta say, let's call it set,
active, song,
singular = useStore, or what's it called?
UseStoreActions.
That takes a state, that's gonna be any,
and just like before,
it's just gonna return state.set.
Active song singular, so
it's gonna take that.
This use effect is also gonna watch
that as a value, cuz we'll be using it.
And then it's also gonna
watch all the songs, so
those are the dependencies
of this use effect.
And then aside this use effect,
what we're gonna do
is we're gonna say set active
song to be songs index.
That's it, lemme go to my store real
quick and make sure I got the right name.
It's change active song I call it set, so
change active song go back to our layer
And Natalie's change active
song there there we go.
Okay cool so
we got the active song set there so
let's try to call next on one of these and
see what happens.
So I'm gonna hit next and you can see it
moves to the next song now if I go next
again to the next song if I go previous
and moves back to the previous song.
Pretty good so all we're doing is watching
that index and we're just saying cool
update the active song to be whatever
songs of this new index that's it.
So works pretty good, And
then some of the other issues
are going to be around when the song
attempts to end but
let's check out the shuffling and repeat.
So, if I put repeat on and
I go all the way to the end, let this in.
If it works, it should say the same song,
let's see what happens.
It didn't, It didn't say the same song so
that's an issue we have to fix.
And then also with shuffle,
if I hit shuffle on that I hit next.
The next song after the Elevator
Bossa Nova is Is eternal springtime.
So unless it randomly picks that song,
which I hope it doesn't, when I hit next,
I should not see turtle springtime,
I should see something else.
Again unless it randomly picks a song that
we just don't know and I'll try it again.
So if I hit next,
it went to Fermi paradox.
So it looks like the shuffling might
be working there, so we hit next again,
I would expect it to go to something other
than elevator, something hidden there.
It goes to astronauts if we go here, so
it looks like the shuffle is
working there pretty well.
But the repeat is definitely not working.
So if we try that again, just to be sure,
this should stay here and It's not.
Okay, so before we try to fix the repeat,
I wanna just walk through
what we have a repeat and
see why it's not working to see if anyone
can take a guess of why it might be.
So for the repeat,
we have a set repeat call here.
It's bounced, it's gonna be set
inside the on repeat handler.
On repeat handler is
going to be set when you
click this button here, the repeat icon.
And then what happens is on end
we check and repeat is true.
If repeat is true, we just say hey,
seek to zero, go back to zero.
But for some reason it's not doing that,
and in fact, we can throw a log in here.
We can say console log, should repeat and
we can throw another log in here and
say is how or why did you get here.
Okay so I'm gonna go back I'm
going to have repeat on or
just refreshes to make sure we're good to
go I'll pick a song on my turn repeat on.
I'm gonna to go all the way to the end of
this console and let's see what we get
good because we know repeat is true
because this thing is lit up white.
But as you can see,
it logged why did you get here?
So even though we know
that repeat is true,
it's here because that wouldn't
be lit of white if it wasn't.
But for some reason inside of the on
end function repeat is false.
So how can a state be two
different values at the same time
>> Is like a race condition.
>> A race condition?
Close It's like a race condition
It's not asynchronous problem, but
is a classical JavaScript problem.
>> Did we accidentally
create like a closure of it?
>> Yes, there's a closure.
Yes, there's definitely
a closure happening here.
And what's really happening is
because we have to pass that on in
callback to react taller.
So when this component loads up,
when we pass the on into it at that time,
the on end the repeat is false.
So by time it actually
calls the on end function.
It's calling the one that was passed
to it which had a falsie value.
But since then the opponent had re
rendered so many times because of
the request animation frame from
you clicking the repeat button.
That repeat actually changed
as far as the latest value.
But the callback that react Howler had
had on in where the repeat was falsi.
So it's stuck in a closure, and
therefore it's outdated value.
So that's a problem, so
this actually happens a lot If you
are using hooks that have event callbacks.
Anytime you got to pass in an event
callback into something with the hook,
you will run into this closure problem.
And there's a lot of ways to get around
it, I think react even has a guide on
their website that talks about this
is the ways you get around it.
Here's how I get around it.
So what we're gonna do is
we're going to use a ref.
So we're gonna come up here and
we're going to make a new ref, just for
the repeat.
So we're gonna say,
repeat or if I can spell,
repeat ref,
that's gonna equals use ref, like that.
And it's initial values gonna
be whatever the repeat state is.
So we're just gonna make a ref and
keep it in sync with the repeat state.
A reference won't fall victim
to the closure because of how it
basically opts out of
the react rendering cycle.
You could think of references like,
just like some global
variable that acts the same way you think
a regular global variable will act.
Whereas a state variable is being tracked
by reacts and it's like using it for
rendering, because that's how it renders,
whereas you could change a reference and
it will never rerender a component.
That's the whole point of it, so
it's not gonna fall victim to
the closure that the state would.
But we do need the repeat state for
the initial so we'll have that.
And then the next thing we'll do is we'll
set up a another use effects that just
keeps the repeat ref and
the repeat state in sync.
So that way we never have to mess that up
so we'll make another use effects here,
it's only dependency is
gonna be the repeat state.
All we're gonna do is to say the repeat
ref dot current equals repeat date that's
it we're just keeping those two in track,
And now that we have that Instead
of checking if repeat is true
inside of our own and we can check
if repeat ref.current is true,
and that'll always be the latest value.
So now if we go back and I toggle repeats.
I should be refreshed just to make
sure click a song toggle repeats
get to the end looks like room Elevator
Basa let that play until the end and
hopefully [LAUGH] hit
the power of JavaScript.
We don't have any Gremlins and
it repeats just like that